# Core Team

Node.js being a thin framework with a small surface the team that is
responsible for maintaining Node.js is kept deliberately small.

## Becoming a team member

Team members are selected based on their contributions to the GitHub project
and their domain expertise for a given subsystem.

The subsystems eligible for maintainence in Node.js are the following:

 * A subsystem for every core module exported
    * Essentially every JavaScript file found in `lib/` of the repository, and
      if applicable its corresponding
 * The build system
 * The test harness
 * libuv
 * http-parser
 * Our interface to V8

A team member may be responsible for multiple of these subsystems, and
subsystems may be maintained by multiple team members.

Team members are added by the existing team after identifying an interested
candidate. Candidates are active members of the community, with consistent high
quality contributions. They have excellent communication skills, they are
excited, and interested in the quality and future of Node.js.

## Responsibilities

### Integrating Changes

All changes should follow the contribution guidelines for pull requests, and
require review by at least one team member before being pushed to the public
repository. Non-controversial changes only need one team member to review
before pushing to the public repository. Complicated changes need review by at
least one of the subsystems maintainers. Controversial changes or breaking API
changes should first be discussed with the wider team.

### Issues

We all should be subscribed to the GitHub issues and actively monitoring the
discussions happening in them. We should be aiming to solve issues and
integrate as many useful pull requests as possible and in as timely as a
fashion as possible, but it is not a priority to have zero issues.

Issues are meant to track what is still left to be done, so even if team
members aren't quite ready to tackle an issue, leaving it open is ok as someone
in the community may come along and decide to help us.

Discussions on issues should be civil and empathetic towards the reporter and
community participating in them. The reporter has taken the time to inform of
us of what they believe to be a deficiency in Node.js and even if we may not
always agree, we should still treat each other with respect.

### Participation

The team collaborates in IRC, members should be hanging out and answering
questions from other team members where possible. There are also scheduled
calls where the team collaborates with each other to discuss more complex
issues as well as making sure no one is blocked on anyone else. These calls are
mostly helpful to discuss architecure and the roadmap.

